It is then clear that $+\infty$ is an upper bound of every subset of the extended real number system, and that every nonempty subset has a least upper bound. If, for example, $E$ is a nonempty set of real numbers which is not bounded above in $R$, then $\sup\,E=+\infty$ in the extended real number system.

Exactly the same remarks apply to lower bounds.

The extended real number system does not form a field, but it is customary to make the following conventions:

$(a)$ If $x$ is real then

$$x+\infty=+\infty,\qquad x-\infty=-\infty,\qquad\frac{x}{+\infty}=\frac{x}{- \infty}=0.$$

$(b)$ If $x>0$ then $x\cdot(+\infty)=+\infty$, $x\cdot(-\infty)=-\infty$.

$(c)$ If $x<0$ then $x\cdot(+\infty)=-\infty$, $x\cdot(-\infty)=+\infty$.

When it is desired to make the distinction between real numbers on the one hand and the symbols $+\infty$ and $-\infty$ on the other quite explicit, the former are called _finite_.

## The Complex Field

### Definition

A _complex number_ is an ordered pair $(a,\,b)$ of real numbers. "Ordered" means that $(a,\,b)$ and $(b,\,a)$ are regarded as distinct if $a\neq b$.

Let $x=(a,\,b),\,y=(c,\,d)$ be two complex numbers. We write $x=y$ if and only if $a=c$ and $b=d$. (Note that this definition is not entirely superfluous; think of equality of rational numbers, represented as quotients of integers.) We define

$$x+y =(a+c,\,b+d),$$ $$xy =(ac-bd,\,ad+bc).$$

### Theorem

_These definitions of addition and multiplication turn the set of all complex numbers into a field, with $(0,\,0)$ and $(1,\,0)$ in the role of $0$ and $1$._

**Proof** We simply verify the field axioms, as listed in Definition 1.12. (Of course, we use the field structure of $R$.)

Let $x=(a,\,b),\,y=(c,\,d),\,z=(e,f)$.

$(\ref{eq:1})$ is clear.

$(\ref{eq:2})$$x+y=(a+c,\,b+d)=(c+a,\,d+b)=y+x$.