**Proof** ($a$), ($b$), and ($c$) are obvious, and ($d$) is an immediate consequence of the Schwarz inequality. By ($d$) we have

$$|\,{\bf x}+{\bf y}\,|^{\,2} =({\bf x}+{\bf y})\cdot({\bf x}+{\bf y})$$ $$={\bf x}\cdot{\bf x}+2{\bf x}\cdot{\bf y}+{\bf y}\cdot{\bf y}$$ $$\leq|\,{\bf x}\,|^{\,2}+2\,|\,{\bf x}\,|\,|{\bf y}\,|\,+\,|{\bf y} \,|^{\,2}$$ $$=(|\,{\bf x}\,|\,+\,|{\bf y}\,|)^{2},$$ so that ($e$) is proved. Finally, ($f$) follows from ($e$) if we replace ${\bf x}$ by ${\bf x}\to{\bf y}$ and ${\bf y}$ by ${\bf y}-{\bf z}$.

**Remarks** Theorem 1.37 ($a$), ($b$), and ($f$) will allow us (see Chap. 2) to regard $R^{k}$ as a metric space.

$R^{1}$ (the set of all real numbers) is usually called the line, or the real line. Likewise, $R^{2}$ is called the plane, or the complex plane (compare Definitions 1.24 and 1.36). In these two cases the norm is just the absolute value of the corresponding real or complex number.

**APPENDIX**

Theorem 1.19 will be proved in this appendix by constructing $R$ from $Q$. We shall divide the construction into several steps.

**Step 1** The members of $R$ will be certain subsets of $Q$, called _cuts_. A cut is, by definition, any set $\alpha\subset Q$ with the following three properties.

* $\alpha$ is not empty, and $\alpha\neq Q$.
* If $p\in\alpha$, $q\in Q$, and $q<p$, then $q\in\alpha$.
* If $p\in\alpha$, then $p<r$ for some $r\in\alpha$.

The letters $p$, $q$, $r$, $\ldots$ will always denote rational numbers, and $\alpha$, $\beta$, $\gamma$, $\ldots$ will denote cuts.

Note that (III) simply says that $\alpha$ has no largest member; (II) implies two facts which will be used freely:

* If $p\in\alpha$ and $q\notin\alpha$ then $p<q$.
* If $r\notin\alpha$ and $r<s$ then $s\notin\alpha$.

**Step 2** Define "$\alpha<\beta$" to mean: $\alpha$ is a proper subset of $\beta$.

Let us check that this meets the requirements of Definition 1.5.

If $\alpha<\beta$ and $\beta<\gamma$ it is clear that $\alpha<\gamma$. (A proper subset of a proper subset is a proper subset.) It is also clear that at most one of the three relations

$$\alpha<\beta,\qquad\alpha=\beta,\qquad\beta<\alpha$$