Conversely, suppose $p\in(r+s)^{*}$. Then $p<r+s$. Choose $t$ so that $2t=r+s-p$, put

$$r^{\prime}=r-t,s^{\prime}=s-t.$$

Then $r^{\prime}\in r^{*}$, $s^{\prime}\in s^{*}$, and $p=r^{\prime}+s^{\prime}$, so that $p\in r^{*}+s^{*}$.

This proves $(a)$. The proof of $(b)$ is similar.

If $r<s$ then $r\in s^{*}$, but $r\notin r^{*}$; hence $r^{*}<s^{*}$.

If $r^{*}<s^{*}$, then there is a $p\in s^{*}$ such that $p\notin r^{*}$. Hence $r\leq p<s$, so that $r<s$.

This proves $(c)$.

**Step 9** We saw in Step 8 that the replacement of the rational numbers $r$ by the corresponding "rational cuts" $r^{*}\in R$ preserves sums, products, and order. This fact may be expressed by saying that the ordered field $Q$ is _isomorphic_ to the ordered field $Q^{*}$ whose elements are the rational cuts. Of course, $r^{*}$ is by no means the same as $r$, but the properties we are concerned with (arithmetic and order) are the same in the two fields.

_It is this identification of $Q$ with $Q^{*}$ which allows us to regard $Q$ as a subfield of $R$._

The second part of Theorem 1.19 is to be understood in terms of this identification. Note that the same phenomenon occurs when the real numbers are regarded as a subfield of the complex field, and it also occurs at a much more elementary level, when the integers are identified with a certain subset of $Q$.

It is a fact, which we will not prove here, that _any two ordered fields with the least-upper-bound property are isomorphic_. The first part of Theorem 1.19 therefore characterizes the real field $R$ completely.

The books by Landau and Thurston cited in the Bibliography are entirely devoted to number systems. Chapter 1 of Knopp's book contains a more leisurely description of how $R$ can be obtained from $Q$. Another construction, in which each real number is defined to be an equivalence class of Cauchy sequences of rational numbers (see Chap. 3), is carried out in Sec. 5 of the book by Hewitt and Stromberg.

The cuts in $Q$ which we used here were invented by Dedekind. The construction of $R$ from $Q$ by means of Cauchy sequences is due to Cantor. Both Cantor and Dedekind published their constructions in 1872.

## Exercises

Unless the contrary is explicitly stated, all numbers that are mentioned in these exercises are understood to be real.

1. If $r$ is rational ($r\neq 0$) and $x$ is irrational, prove that $r+x$ and $rx$ are irrational.