2. Prove that there is no rational number whose square is $12$.
3. Prove Proposition 1.15.
4. Let $E$ be a nonempty subset of an ordered set; suppose $\alpha$ is a lower bound of $E$ and $\beta$ is an upper bound of $E$. Prove that $\alpha\leq\beta$.
5. Let $A$ be a nonempty set of real numbers which is bounded below. Let $-A$ be the set of all numbers $-x$, where $x\in A$. Prove that $$\inf A=-\sup(-A).$$
6. Fix $b>1$. 1. If $m$, $n$, $p$, $q$ are integers, $n>0$, $q>0$, and $r=m/n=p/q$, prove that $$(b^{m})^{1/n}=(b^{p})^{1/n}.$$ Hence it makes sense to define $b^{r}=(b^{m})^{1/n}$. 2. Prove that $b^{r+s}=b^{r}b^{s}$ if $r$ and $s$ are rational. 3. If $x$ is real, define $B(x)$ to be the set of all numbers $b^{t}$, where $t$ is rational and $t\leq x$. Prove that $$b^{r}=\sup B(r)$$ when $r$ is rational. Hence it makes sense to define $$b^{x}=\sup B(x)$$ for every real $x$. 4. Prove that $b^{x+y}=b^{x}b^{y}$ for all real $x$ and $y$.
7. Fix $b>1$, $y>0$, and prove that there is a unique real $x$ such that $b^{x}=y$, by completing the following outline. (This $x$ is called the _logarithm of $y$ to the base $b$._) 1. For any positive integer $n$, $b^{n}-1\geq n(b-1)$. 2. Hence $b-1\geq n(b^{1/n}-1)$. 3. If $t>1$ and $n>(b-1)/(t-1)$, then $b^{1/n}<t$. 4. If $w$ is such that $b^{w}<y$, then $b^{w+(1/n)}<y$ for sufficiently large $n$; to see this, apply part $(c)$ with $t=y\cdot b^{-w}$. 5. If $b^{w}>y$, then $b^{w-(1/n)}>y$ for sufficiently large $n$. 6. Let $A$ be the set of all $w$ such that $b^{w}<y$, and show that $x=\sup A$ satisfies $b^{x}=y$. 7. Prove that this $x$ is unique.
8. Prove that no order can be defined in the complex field that turns it into an ordered field. _Hint:_$-1$ is a square.
9. Suppose $z=a+bi$, $w=c+di$. Define $z<w$ if $a<c$, and also if $a=c$ but $b<d$. Prove that this turns the set of all complex numbers into an ordered set. (This type of order relation is called a _dictionary order_, or _lexicographic order_, for obvious reasons.) Does this ordered set have the least-upper-bound property?
10. Suppose $z=a+bi$, $w=u+iv$, and $$a= \left(\frac{|w|+u}{2}\right)^{1/2}, b= \left(\frac{|w|-u}{2}\right)^{1/2}.$$