Prove that $z^{2}=w$ if $v\geq 0$ and that $(\bar{z})^{2}=w$ if $v\leq 0$. Conclude that every complex number (with one exception!) has two complex square roots.
11. If $z$ is a complex number, prove that there exists an $r\geq 0$ and a complex number $w$ with $|\,w\,|=1$ such that $z=rw$. Are $w$ and $r$ always uniquely determined by $z$?
12. If $z_{1},\ldots,\,z_{n}$ are complex, prove that $$|\,z_{1}+z_{2}+\cdots+z_{n}|\leq|\,z_{1}|\,+\,|\,z_{2}|\,+\cdots+|\,z_{n}|\,.$$
13. If $x,\,y$ are complex, prove that $$||x|-|y||\leq|\,x-y|\,.$$
14. If $z$ is a complex number such that $|\,z|=1$, that is, such that $z\bar{z}=1$, compute $$|\,1+z|^{2}+|\,1-z|^{2}.$$
15. Under what conditions does equality hold in the Schwarz inequality?
16. Suppose $k\geq 3$, $\mathbf{x}$, $\mathbf{y}\in R^{k}$, $|\,\mathbf{x}-\mathbf{y}\,|=d>0$, and $r>0$. Prove: 1. If $2r>d$, there are infinitely many $\mathbf{z}\in R^{k}$ such that $$|\,\mathbf{z}-\mathbf{x}\,|\,=|\,\mathbf{z}-\mathbf{y}\,|\,=r.$$ 2. If $2r=d$, there is exactly one such $\mathbf{z}$. 3. If $2r<d$, there is no such $\mathbf{z}$. How must these statements be modified if $k$ is $2$ or $1$?
17. Prove that $$|\,\mathbf{x}+\mathbf{y}\,|^{2}+|\,\mathbf{x}-\mathbf{y}\,|^{2}=2|\,\mathbf{x }\,|^{2}+2|\,\mathbf{y}\,|^{2}$$ if $\mathbf{x}\in R^{k}$ and $\mathbf{y}\in R^{k}$. Interpret this geometrically, as a statement about parallel-ograms.
18. If $k\geq 2$ and $\mathbf{x}\in R^{k}$, prove that there exists $\mathbf{y}\in R^{k}$ such that $\mathbf{y}\neq\mathbf{0}$ but $\mathbf{x}\cdot\mathbf{y}=0$. Is this also true if $k=1$?
19. Suppose $\mathbf{a}\in R^{k}$, $\mathbf{b}\in R^{k}$. Find $\mathbf{c}\in R^{k}$ and $r>0$ such that $$|\,\mathbf{x}-\mathbf{a}\,|\,=2|\,\mathbf{x}-\mathbf{b}\,|$$ if and only if $|\,\mathbf{x}-\mathbf{c}\,|\,=r$. (_Solution:_$3\mathbf{c}=4\mathbf{b}-\mathbf{a}$, $3r=2|\,\mathbf{b}-\mathbf{a}\,|$.)
20. With reference to the Appendix, suppose that property (III) were omitted from the definition of a cut. Keep the same definitions of order and addition. Show that the resulting ordered set has the least-upper-bound property, that addition satisfies axioms (A1) to (A4) (with a slightly different zero-element!) but that (A5) fails.