such that $f(x)=y$. If, for each $y\in B,f^{-1}(y)$ consists of at most one element of $A$, then $f$ is said to be a 1-1 (_one-to-one_) mapping of $A$ into $B$. This may also be expressed as follows: $f$ is a 1-1 mapping of $A$ into $B$ provided that $f(x_{1})\neq f(x_{2})$ whenever $x_{1}\neq x_{2}$, $x_{1}\in A$, $x_{2}\in A$.

(The notation $x_{1}\neq x_{2}$ means that $x_{1}$ and $x_{2}$ are distinct elements; otherwise we write $x_{1}=x_{2}$.)

### Definition

If there exists a 1-1 mapping of $A$_onto_$B$, we say that $A$ and $B$ can be put in 1-1 _correspondence_, or that $A$ and $B$ have the same _cardinal number_, or, briefly, that $A$ and $B$ are _equivalent_, and we write $A\sim B$. This relation clearly has the following properties:

It is reflexive: $A\sim A$.

It is symmetric: If $A\sim B$, then $B\sim A$.

It is transitive: If $A\sim B$ and $B\sim C$, then $A\sim C$.

Any relation with these three properties is called an _equivalence relation_.

### Definition

For any positive integer $n$, let $J_{n}$ be the set whose elements are the integers 1, 2,..., $n$; let $J$ be the set consisting of all positive integers. For any set $A$, we say:

$(a)$$A$ is _finite_ if $A\sim J_{n}$ for some $n$ (the empty set is also considered to be finite). $(b)$$A$ is _infinite_ if $A$ is not finite. $(c)$$A$ is _countable_ if $A\sim J$. $(d)$$A$ is _uncountable_ if $A$ is neither finite nor countable. $(e)$$A$ is _at most countable_ if $A$ is finite or countable.

Countable sets are sometimes called _enumerable_, or _demumerable_.

For two finite sets $A$ and $B$, we evidently have $A\sim B$ if and only if $A$ and $B$ contain the same number of elements. For infinite sets, however, the idea of "having the same number of elements" becomes quite vague, whereas the notion of 1-1 correspondence retains its clarity.

### Example

Let $A$ be the set of all integers. Then $A$ is countable. For, consider the following arrangement of the sets $A$ and $J$:

$A$: $0$, $1$, $-1$, $2$, $-2$, $3$, $-3$,...

$J$: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,...