We can, in this example, even give an explicit formula for a function $f$ from $J$ to $A$ which sets up a 1-1 correspondence:

$$f(n)=\begin{cases}\frac{n}{2}&(n\text{ even}),\\ -\frac{n-1}{2}&(n\text{ odd}).\end{cases}$$

**2.6 Remark** A finite set cannot be equivalent to one of its proper subsets. That this is, however, possible for infinite sets, is shown by Example 2.5, in which $J$ is a proper subset of $A$.

In fact, we could replace Definition 2.4$(b)$ by the statement: $A$ is infinite if $A$ is equivalent to one of its proper subsets.

**2.7 Definition** By a _sequence_, we mean a function $f$ defined on the set $J$ of all positive integers. If $f(n)=x_{n}$, for $n\in J$, it is customary to denote the sequence $f$ by the symbol $\{x_{n}\}$, or sometimes by $x_{1}$, $x_{2}$, $x_{3}$,.... The values of $f$, that is, the elements $x_{n}$, are called the _terms_ of the sequence. If $A$ is a set and if $x_{n}\in A$ for all $n\in J$, then $\{x_{n}\}$ is said to be a _sequence in $A$_, or a _sequence of elements of $A$_.

Note that the terms $x_{1}$, $x_{2}$, $x_{3}$,... of a sequence need not be distinct.

Since every countable set is the range of a 1-1 function defined on $J$, we may regard every countable set as the range of a sequence of distinct terms. Speaking more loosely, we may say that the elements of any countable set can be "arranged in a sequence."

Sometimes it is convenient to replace $J$ in this definition by the set of all nonnegative integers, i.e., to start with 0 rather than with 1.

**2.8 Theorem** _Every infinite subset of a countable set $A$ is countable._

**Proof** Suppose $E\subset A$, and $E$ is infinite. Arrange the elements $x$ of $A$ in a sequence $\{x_{n}\}$ of distinct elements. Construct a sequence $\{n_{k}\}$ as follows:

Let $n_{1}$ be the smallest positive integer such that $x_{n_{1}}\in E$. Having chosen $n_{1}$,..., $n_{k-1}$ ($k=2$, $3$, $4$,...), let $n_{k}$ be the smallest integer greater than $n_{k-1}$ such that $x_{n_{k}}\in E$.

Putting $f(k)=x_{n_{k}}$ ($k=1$, $2$, $3$,...), we obtain a 1-1 correspondence between $E$ and $J$.

The theorem shows that, roughly speaking, countable sets represent the "smallest" infinity: No uncountable set can be a subset of a countable set.

**2.9 Definition** Let $A$ and $\Omega$ be sets, and suppose that with each element $\alpha$ of $A$ there is associated a subset of $\Omega$ which we denote by $E_{\alpha}$.