**Corollary** _The set of all rational numbers is countable_.

**Proof** We apply Theorem 2.13, with $n=2$, noting that every rational $r$ is of the form $b/a$, where $a$ and $b$ are integers. The set of pairs $(a,\,b)$, and therefore the set of fractions $b/a$, is countable.

In fact, even the set of all algebraic numbers is countable (see Exercise 2).

That not all infinite sets are, however, countable, is shown by the next theorem.

**2.14** Theorem** _Let $A$ be the set of all sequences whose elements are the digits $0$ and $1$. This set $A$ is uncountable._

The elements of $A$ are sequences like $1,\,0,\,0,\,1,\,0,\,1,\,1,\,\dots$.

**Proof** Let $E$ be a countable subset of $A$, and let $E$ consist of the sequences $s_{1},\,s_{2}\,,\,s_{3}\,,\,\dots$. We construct a sequence $s$ as follows. If the $n$th digit in $s_{n}$ is $1$, we let the $n$th digit of $s$ be $0$, and vice versa. Then the sequence $s$ differs from every member of $E$ in at least one place; hence $s\notin E$. But clearly $s\in A$, so that $E$ is a proper subset of $A$.

We have shown that every countable subset of $A$ is a proper subset of $A$. It follows that $A$ is uncountable (for otherwise $A$ would be a proper subset of $A$, which is absurd).

The idea of the above proof was first used by Cantor, and is called Cantor's diagonal process; for, if the sequences $s_{1},\,s_{2}\,,\,s_{3}\,,\,\dots$ are placed in an array like (16), it is the elements on the diagonal which are involved in the construction of the new sequence.

Readers who are familiar with the binary representation of the real numbers (base $2$ instead of $10$) will notice that Theorem 2.14 implies that the set of all real numbers is uncountable. We shall give a second proof of this fact in Theorem 2.43.

**METRIC SPACES**

**2.15** Definition A set $X$, whose elements we shall call _points_, is said to be a _metric space_ if with any two points $p$ and $q$ of $X$ there is associated a real number $d(p,q)$, called the _distance_ from $p$ to $q$, such that

$(a)\quad d(p,q)>0$ if $p\neq q$; $d(p,\,p)=0$;

$(b)\quad d(p,q)=d(q,p)$;

$(c)\quad d(p,q)\leq d(p,r)+d(r,q)$, for any $r\in X$.

Any function with these three properties is called a _distance function_, or a _metric_.